- [Instructor] Now that you have improved
the design of ExistingService,
let's add new features by implementing an event listener.
Anyone can have multiple listeners doing different work
based on application requirements.
Spring gives us two ways to define Listener.
We can either implement an ApplicationListener interface
or use @EventListener.
With ApplicationListener,
as long as it is registered as Spring bean,
it will receive events.
Spring uses the signature of the listener
to determine if it matches that event or not.
Limitations of using ApplicationListener
is that it can only be used for objects
that extend ApplicationEvent class.
On top of that, Listener can only process one event type.
Starting with Spring 4.2,
it's now possible to simply annotate a method
over Spring bean with @EventListener.
Each method will be automatically registered
as a new application listener
to listen for one or many events,
depending on the signature of the method.
Unlike ApplicationListener interface,
which only supports void return type,
annotated methods may have a nonvoid return type.
When they do, the result of the method
in vocation is send as a new event.
If the return type is either an array or a collection,
each element is send as a new individual event.
It is also possible to define the order
in which listeners for the same event are to be invoked.
To do so, we can use SpringCommon @order annotation,
alongside EventListener annotation.
So far we have created and published RegisteredEvent.
Now, we need to create a new listener
that will capture RegisteredEvent
and trigger RegistrationEmail.
Under the email package,
create a new class called EmailListeners.
We need to register a new listener by creating new methods.
Return type can be void
since we don't need to send new events.
Let's call it onRegisteredEvent
that accepts type CustomerRegisteredEvent.
In order for this method to get triggered when event is sent
we need to annotate it with @EventListener.
And also mark our class as Spring bean with @Component.
Right now, our listener is not doing anything.
In order to send an email
we just need to inject EmailService.
I like to use project loan book @RequiredArcsConstructor
to remove well-played code
and handle construction injection.
And we can now call emailservice.sendregisteredemail
by providing a customer from the event
that came as a method argument.
Keep in mind that the email service we are using
is just doing log print.
In a real application,
we would be using real email implementation.
For testing, you can run EmailCustomerServiceTest class
and check results for registeredcustomer,
foranewcustomer, sendsanemail.
You can see that test class does not know anything
about events infrastructure.
What we only care is that CustomerService receives
a new customer and expect an email service has been called.
And there you have it.
We have successfully refactor the code
from using direct method calls to Spring beans.